doc/tor.md, before:

TOR SUPPORT IN GMC CORE
=======================

It is possible to run GrandMasterCoin Core as a Tor hidden service, and connect to such services.

The following directions assume you have a Tor proxy running on port 9050. Many
distributions default to having a SOCKS proxy listening on port 9050, but others
may not. In particular, the Tor Browser Bundle defaults to listening on a random
port. See [Tor Project FAQ:TBBSocksPort](https://www.torproject.org/docs/faq.html.en#TBBSocksPort)
for how to properly configure Tor.


1. Run GrandMasterCoin Core behind a Tor proxy
----------------------------------

The first step is running GrandMasterCoin Core behind a Tor proxy. This will already make all
outgoing connections be anonymized, but more is possible.

	-proxy=ip:port  Set the proxy server. If SOCKS5 is selected (default), this proxy
	                server will be used to try to reach .onion addresses as well.

	-onion=ip:port  Set the proxy server to use for tor hidden services. You do not
	                need to set this if it's the same as -proxy. You can use -noonion
	                to explicitly disable access to hidden service.

	-listen         When using -proxy, listening is disabled by default. If you want
	                to run a hidden service (see next section), you'll need to enable
	                it explicitly.

	-connect=X      When behind a Tor proxy, you can specify .onion addresses instead
	-addnode=X      of IP addresses or hostnames in these parameters. It requires
	-seednode=X     SOCKS5. In Tor mode, such addresses can also be exchanged with
	                other P2P nodes.

	-onlynet=tor    Only connect to .onion nodes and drop IPv4/6 connections.

An example how to start the client if the Tor proxy is running on local host on
port 9050 and only allows .onion nodes to connect:

	./grandmastercoind -onion=127.0.0.1:9050 -onlynet=tor -listen=0 -addnode=ssapp53tmftyjmjb.onion

In a typical situation, this suffices to run behind a Tor proxy:

	./grandmastercoind -proxy=127.0.0.1:9050


2. Run a GrandMasterCoin Core hidden server
-------------------------------

If you configure your Tor system accordingly, it is possible to make your node also
reachable from the Tor network. Add these lines to your /etc/tor/torrc (or equivalent
config file):

	HiddenServiceDir /var/lib/tor/grandmastercoincore-service/
	HiddenServicePort 3234 127.0.0.1:3234
	HiddenServicePort 13234 127.0.0.1:13234

The directory can be different of course, but (both) port numbers should be equal to
your grandmastercoind's P2P listen port (3234 by default).

	-externalip=X   You can tell GrandMasterCoin Core about its publicly reachable address using
	                this option, and this can be a .onion address. Given the above
	                configuration, you can find your onion address in
	                /var/lib/tor/grandmastercoincore-service/hostname. Onion addresses are given
	                preference for your node to advertise itself with, for connections
	                coming from unroutable addresses (such as 127.0.0.1, where the
	                Tor proxy typically runs).

	-listen         You'll need to enable listening for incoming connections, as this
	                is off by default behind a proxy.

	-discover       When -externalip is specified, no attempt is made to discover local
	                IPv4 or IPv6 addresses. If you want to run a dual stack, reachable
	                from both Tor and IPv4 (or IPv6), you'll need to either pass your
	                other addresses using -externalip, or explicitly enable -discover.
	                Note that both addresses of a dual-stack system may be easily
	                linkable using traffic analysis.

In a typical situation, where you're only reachable via Tor, this should suffice:

	./grandmastercoind -proxy=127.0.0.1:9050 -externalip=ssapp53tmftyjmjb.onion -listen

(obviously, replace the Onion address with your own). It should be noted that you still
listen on all devices and another node could establish a clearnet connection, when knowing
your address. To mitigate this, additionally bind the address of your Tor proxy:

	./grandmastercoind ... -bind=127.0.0.1

If you don't care too much about hiding your node, and want to be reachable on IPv4
as well, use `discover` instead:

	./grandmastercoind ... -discover

and open port 3234 on your firewall (or use -upnp).

If you only want to use Tor to reach onion addresses, but not use it as a proxy
for normal IPv4/IPv6 communication, use:

	./grandmastercoind -onion=127.0.0.1:9050 -externalip=ssapp53tmftyjmjb.onion -discover


3. List of known GrandMasterCoin Core Tor relays
------------------------------------

* [darkcoinie7ghp67.onion](http://darkcoinie7ghp67.onion/)
* [drktalkwaybgxnoq.onion](http://drktalkwaybgxnoq.onion/)
* [drkcoinooditvool.onion](http://drkcoinooditvool.onion/)
* [darkcoxbtzggpmcc.onion](http://darkcoxbtzggpmcc.onion/)
* [ssapp53tmftyjmjb.onion](http://ssapp53tmftyjmjb.onion/)
* [j2dfl3cwxyxpbc7s.onion](http://j2dfl3cwxyxpbc7s.onion/)
* [vf6d2mxpuhh2cbxt.onion](http://vf6d2mxpuhh2cbxt.onion/)
* [rj24sicr6i4vsnkv.onion](http://rj24sicr6i4vsnkv.onion/)
* [wrwx2dy7jyh32o53.onion](http://wrwx2dy7jyh32o53.onion/)
* [f5ekot4ajkbe23gt.onion](http://f5ekot4ajkbe23gt.onion/)
* [dshtord4mqvgzqev.onion](http://dshtord4mqvgzqev.onion/)


4. Automatically listen on Tor
--------------------------------

Starting with Tor version 0.2.7.1 it is possible, through Tor's control socket
API, to create and destroy 'ephemeral' hidden services programmatically.
GrandMasterCoin Core has been updated to make use of this.

This means that if Tor is running (and proper authorization is available),
GrandMasterCoin Core automatically creates a hidden service to listen on, without
manual configuration. This will positively affect the number of available
.onion nodes.

This new feature is enabled by default if GrandMasterCoin Core is listening, and
a connection to Tor can be made. It can be configured with the `-listenonion`,
`-torcontrol` and `-torpassword` settings. To show verbose debugging
information, pass `-debug=tor`.

Commit message:

Released v0.7.7.1
* Better visual look, matches recent naming change.
* Changed datadir path: now it's `~/.gmc/` instead of `~/.grandmastercoincore/`
* Captured recent chain checkpoints.

doc/tor.md, after:

TOR SUPPORT IN GMC CORE
=======================

It is possible to run GlobalMovementClub Core as a Tor hidden service, and connect to such services.

The following directions assume you have a Tor proxy running on port 9050. Many
distributions default to having a SOCKS proxy listening on port 9050, but others
may not. In particular, the Tor Browser Bundle defaults to listening on a random
port. See [Tor Project FAQ:TBBSocksPort](https://www.torproject.org/docs/faq.html.en#TBBSocksPort)
for how to properly configure Tor.


1. Run GlobalMovementClub Core behind a Tor proxy
----------------------------------

The first step is running GlobalMovementClub Core behind a Tor proxy. This will already make all
outgoing connections be anonymized, but more is possible.

	-proxy=ip:port  Set the proxy server. If SOCKS5 is selected (default), this proxy
	                server will be used to try to reach .onion addresses as well.

	-onion=ip:port  Set the proxy server to use for tor hidden services. You do not
	                need to set this if it's the same as -proxy. You can use -noonion
	                to explicitly disable access to hidden service.

	-listen         When using -proxy, listening is disabled by default. If you want
	                to run a hidden service (see next section), you'll need to enable
	                it explicitly.

	-connect=X      When behind a Tor proxy, you can specify .onion addresses instead
	-addnode=X      of IP addresses or hostnames in these parameters. It requires
	-seednode=X     SOCKS5. In Tor mode, such addresses can also be exchanged with
	                other P2P nodes.

	-onlynet=tor    Only connect to .onion nodes and drop IPv4/6 connections.

An example how to start the client if the Tor proxy is running on local host on
port 9050 and only allows .onion nodes to connect:

	./gmcd -onion=127.0.0.1:9050 -onlynet=tor -listen=0 -addnode=ssapp53tmftyjmjb.onion

In a typical situation, this suffices to run behind a Tor proxy:

	./gmcd -proxy=127.0.0.1:9050


2. Run a GlobalMovementClub Core hidden server
-------------------------------

If you configure your Tor system accordingly, it is possible to make your node also
reachable from the Tor network. Add these lines to your /etc/tor/torrc (or equivalent
config file):

	HiddenServiceDir /var/lib/tor/globalmovementclubcore-service/
	HiddenServicePort 3234 127.0.0.1:3234
	HiddenServicePort 13234 127.0.0.1:13234

The directory can be different of course, but (both) port numbers should be equal to
your gmcd's P2P listen port (3234 by default).

	-externalip=X   You can tell GlobalMovementClub Core about its publicly reachable address using
	                this option, and this can be a .onion address. Given the above
	                configuration, you can find your onion address in
	                /var/lib/tor/globalmovementclubcore-service/hostname. Onion addresses are given
	                preference for your node to advertise itself with, for connections
	                coming from unroutable addresses (such as 127.0.0.1, where the
	                Tor proxy typically runs).

	-listen         You'll need to enable listening for incoming connections, as this
	                is off by default behind a proxy.

	-discover       When -externalip is specified, no attempt is made to discover local
	                IPv4 or IPv6 addresses. If you want to run a dual stack, reachable
	                from both Tor and IPv4 (or IPv6), you'll need to either pass your
	                other addresses using -externalip, or explicitly enable -discover.
	                Note that both addresses of a dual-stack system may be easily
	                linkable using traffic analysis.

In a typical situation, where you're only reachable via Tor, this should suffice:

	./gmcd -proxy=127.0.0.1:9050 -externalip=ssapp53tmftyjmjb.onion -listen

(obviously, replace the Onion address with your own). It should be noted that you still
listen on all devices and another node could establish a clearnet connection, when knowing
your address. To mitigate this, additionally bind the address of your Tor proxy:

	./gmcd ... -bind=127.0.0.1

If you don't care too much about hiding your node, and want to be reachable on IPv4
as well, use `discover` instead:

	./gmcd ... -discover

and open port 3234 on your firewall (or use -upnp).

If you only want to use Tor to reach onion addresses, but not use it as a proxy
for normal IPv4/IPv6 communication, use:

	./gmcd -onion=127.0.0.1:9050 -externalip=ssapp53tmftyjmjb.onion -discover


3. List of known GlobalMovementClub Core Tor relays
------------------------------------

* [darkcoinie7ghp67.onion](http://darkcoinie7ghp67.onion/)
* [drktalkwaybgxnoq.onion](http://drktalkwaybgxnoq.onion/)
* [drkcoinooditvool.onion](http://drkcoinooditvool.onion/)
* [darkcoxbtzggpmcc.onion](http://darkcoxbtzggpmcc.onion/)
* [ssapp53tmftyjmjb.onion](http://ssapp53tmftyjmjb.onion/)
* [j2dfl3cwxyxpbc7s.onion](http://j2dfl3cwxyxpbc7s.onion/)
* [vf6d2mxpuhh2cbxt.onion](http://vf6d2mxpuhh2cbxt.onion/)
* [rj24sicr6i4vsnkv.onion](http://rj24sicr6i4vsnkv.onion/)
* [wrwx2dy7jyh32o53.onion](http://wrwx2dy7jyh32o53.onion/)
* [f5ekot4ajkbe23gt.onion](http://f5ekot4ajkbe23gt.onion/)
* [dshtord4mqvgzqev.onion](http://dshtord4mqvgzqev.onion/)


4. Automatically listen on Tor
--------------------------------

Starting with Tor version 0.2.7.1 it is possible, through Tor's control socket
API, to create and destroy 'ephemeral' hidden services programmatically.
GlobalMovementClub Core has been updated to make use of this.

This means that if Tor is running (and proper authorization is available),
GlobalMovementClub Core automatically creates a hidden service to listen on, without
manual configuration. This will positively affect the number of available
.onion nodes.

This new feature is enabled by default if GlobalMovementClub Core is listening, and
a connection to Tor can be made. It can be configured with the `-listenonion`,
`-torcontrol` and `-torpassword` settings. To show verbose debugging
information, pass `-debug=tor`.
